I have to write the backend for a hotel booking service, it should expose an api to a react webapp.
These are the room details:
Room type A: 100 Rs per hour
Room type B: 80 Rs per hour
Room type C: 50 Rs per hour
A Hotel can have
2 rooms of A type
3 rooms of B type
5 rooms of C type

suggest a table schema for the same, the table should contain a room's booked status, booking date, time, hours. 
Allow for booking the room for unbooked time.
Here's a suggestion for a table schema that you could use:

Table: rooms

Column	Type	Description
id	integer	unique identifier for the room
type	character	type of room (A, B, or C)
price	integer	price per hour for the room
capacity	integer	maximum number of people in the room
is_booked	boolean	whether the room is currently booked
booked_at	timestamp	date and time when the room was booked
booked_for	integer	number of hours the room is booked for
booked_by	string	name of the person who booked the room
In this schema, each room is represented by a row in the rooms table. The type, price, and capacity columns contain information about the room that doesn't change. The is_booked, booked_at, booked_for, and booked_by columns are used to track the room's booking status.

You can populate the table with the following data:

id	type	price	capacity	is_booked	booked_at	booked_for	booked_by
1	A	100	2	false	null	null	null
2	A	100	2	false	null	null	null
3	B	80	2	false	null	null	null
4	B	80	2	false	null	null	null
5	B	80	2	false	null	null	null
6	C	50	1	false	null	null	null
7	C	50	1	false	null	null	null
8	C	50	1	false	null	null	null
9	C	50	1	false	null	null	null
10	C	50	1	false	null	null	null
When a room is booked, you can update the is_booked, booked_at, booked_for, and booked_by columns. You can use a query like this to update the room's booking status:

sql
Copy code
UPDATE rooms SET is_booked = true, booked_at = <current timestamp>, booked_for = <number of hours>, booked_by = '<customer name>' WHERE id = <room id> AND is_booked = false;
To allow booking the room for unbooked time, you can check whether the room is already booked for the requested time period. If the room is available, you can update its booking status as described above. If the room is already booked, you can return an error message to the user.




aaryaxb1@gmail.com
the room might be booked for the next two days, if a user wants to book it for the day after, where do I save that information?
To allow for bookings in advance, you can add an additional column to the rooms table to track the date when the room is booked for. This way, you can store information about the booking date in addition to the booking time and duration.

Here's an updated table schema:

Table: rooms

Column	Type	Description
id	integer	unique identifier for the room
type	character	type of room (A, B, or C)
price	integer	price per hour for the room
capacity	integer	maximum number of people in the room
is_booked	boolean	whether the room is currently booked
booked_at	timestamp	date and time when the room was booked
booked_for	integer	number of hours the room is booked for
booked_by	string	name of the person who booked the room
booked_on	date	date when the room is booked for (nullable)
In this schema, the new booked_on column tracks the date when the room is booked for. When a room is booked, you can set this column to the date when the booking starts. For example, if a room is booked from March 13th at 10 AM for 2 hours, you would set booked_on to March 13th.

To allow users to book a room for a date in the future, you can update your booking logic to check if the room is available for the requested date and time. If the room is available, you can create a new booking




aaryaxb1@gmail.com
Continue the previous response after - "To allow users to book a room for a date in the future, you can update your booking logic to check if the room is available for the requested date and time. If the room is available, you can create a new booking ..."
...record with the requested date and time. Here's an example of how you can modify the booking API to allow users to book a room for a specific date and time:

css
Copy code
POST /api/bookings

Request body:
{
  "room_id": 1,
  "booking_date": "2023-03-15",
  "start_time": "14:00",
  "duration": 2,
  "booked_by": "John Doe"
}

Response:
{
  "id": 5,
  "room_id": 1,
  "booking_date": "2023-03-15",
  "start_time": "14:00",
  "duration": 2,
  "booked_by": "John Doe",
  "created_at": "2023-03-11T10:00:00Z"
}
In this example, the request body includes the room_id of the room to be booked, the booking_date when the room is requested to be booked, the start_time when the booking should start, the duration of the booking in hours, and the booked_by name of the person who is making the booking.

The booking API then checks if the room is available for the requested date and time. If the room is available, it creates a new booking record with the booking details and returns the booking ID in the response. If the room is already booked during the requested time period, the API returns an error message indicating that the room is not available.

When querying the database for available rooms, you would need to take both the booking date and time into account. For example, to check if a room is available on March 15th from 2 PM to 4 PM, you would need to query the database for any existing bookings that overlap with that time period on that date.

By allowing users to book rooms for future dates, you can provide greater flexibility and convenience for your users, while still ensuring that your booking system remains accurate and reliable.




aaryaxb1@gmail.com
how would I store the data about the advanced bookings?
To store data about advanced bookings, you can create a new table called advance_bookings that tracks the bookings made for future dates. This table can contain information about the room, the booking date and time, the duration of the booking, and the user who made the booking.

Here's an example schema for the advance_bookings table:

Table: advance_bookings

Column	Type	Description
id	integer	unique identifier for the booking
room_id	integer	foreign key reference to the room being booked
booking_date	date	date when the room is booked for
start_time	time	time when the booking should start
duration	integer	number of hours the room is booked for
booked_by	string	name of the person who made the booking
created_at	timestamp	date and time when the booking was made
In this schema, the advance_bookings table stores information about the room being booked, the date and time when the booking should start, the duration of the booking, and the user who made the booking.

When a user books a room for a future date, you can create a new record in the advance_bookings table with the booking details. This record will remain in the table until the booking date and time arrive, at which point you can create a new record in the bookings table to track the actual booking of the room.

You can use a scheduled job to periodically check the advance_bookings table for any bookings that have a booking date and time that have arrived. When a booking date and time arrive, you can create a new record in the bookings table to track the actual booking of the room, and then delete the corresponding record from the advance_bookings table.

By using a separate table for advance bookings, you can ensure that your booking system remains accurate and reliable, while still allowing users to book rooms for future dates.




aaryaxb1@gmail.com
when I add a booking to rooms table what are the checks I will have to perform on rooms table and advance_bookings table?
When adding a new booking to the bookings table, you'll need to perform several checks on both the bookings table and the advance_bookings table to ensure that the room is available and that there are no conflicts with existing bookings. Here are the checks that you should perform:

Check if the room is available: You'll need to check if the room is currently available during the requested time period. To do this, you can query the bookings table for any bookings that overlap with the requested time period. If there are no overlapping bookings, the room is available.

Check if the booking is in the future: You'll need to check if the booking date and time are in the future. If the booking date and time have already passed, you should not allow the booking to be added to the bookings table.

Check if the room is available in the future: You'll need to check the advance_bookings table to see if there are any advance bookings that overlap with the requested time period. If there are no overlapping advance bookings, the room is available for the requested time period.

Add the booking: If the room is available and there are no conflicts with existing bookings, you can add the new booking to the bookings table.

Update the advance_bookings table: If the new booking overlaps with an existing advance booking, you'll need to update the advance_bookings table to reflect the fact that the room is no longer available during that time period.

Delete the advance booking: If the new booking corresponds to an existing advance booking, you'll need to delete the corresponding record from the advance_bookings table.

By performing these checks, you can ensure that the room is available and that there are no conflicts with existing bookings or advance bookings before adding a new booking to the bookings table. This will help to ensure that your booking system remains accurate and reliable.



